# 06-02-2020 
Meeting Notes
* Project: E.coli bateria image segmentation
* Advisor: Prof. Long CHEN
* Member: DB623033 LIN GUANGZE & DB611408 LI QIANYUN

## Finished Items
* Revised automatic Thresholding: Since professor Chen pointed out that our previous method will not work, according to his advice, we implemented a different thresholding technique. we will get the histogram of all the small blocks (instead of only getting blocks with mean or variance greater than 0), get a histogram out of them and use the histogram to find the threshold of mean and variance. After getting the histogram, we use the 'findpeaks' function to find the highest peak in the histogram and find its x position. Then we set the threshold as the value between this 0 and x position. This value is tuned so that we have a relatively good segmentation result.
* Automatic counting of cells: This method is similar to the method in automatic thresholding. We start by using component labeling out of the segmented image and we get an array, We then get the histogram of this array. Since we assume that most of the cells are single and the first bin of the histogram has the highest number of connected component, we used the 0.4 and 0.6 portion of the first bin as our smallest and biggest cell size. Since we have the segmented image, we can count the number of 1 in the image(which is assumed as the size of all cells), and we have the size of each cell, we can get the approximate number of cells in a range. 

## Discussion Summary & Challenges
* The professor approves of our current work and hopes we can continue to improve both the segmented image and the counting result. Professor Chen also said that we should consider about starting to build a GUI for our final year project.
* After changing different images in our dataset, we find that some of the images have materials in the dish whose color is similar to cells, and that the segmentation result is not good when it comes to this kind of area. The professor suggested that we can  start by doing more image preprocessing techniques like increasing the contrast of the image to see whether those materials can be removed.
* About using the LBP as a feature to do image segmentation, professor thinks we should implement more image smoothing techniques and do more image enhancement techniques to see if there will be better segmentation result.

## Schedule
* We plan to build a GUI and implement more image enhancement techniques to try to remove the materials in dish before the end of this month. The meeting will be scheduled as soon as we finish those this month.
