# 14-12-2019 
Meeting Notes
* Project:E.coli bateria image segmentation
* Advisor:Prof. Long CHEN
* Member: DB623033 LIN GUANGZE & DB611408 LI QIANYUN

## Finished Items
* To remove other things(Perhaps some strip-shaped things, etc) that are not cells in the dish, we performed a open operation with a disk-shape structure element. Since we only try that in one of the testing images, the radius of the structure element right now is tuned to 6.
* After performing the open operation, since the cells in the center of the images are relatively small and dense, some of the cells are probably removed and classified as the background and thus a hole is shown. To improve that, when doing k-means clustering, the patches that are not near the edge of the mask are also classified into 3 clusters. The pixels whose labels are within the top 2 labels are recognized as cells. 
* To better improve the segmentation result, for each patch, we first identify if the patch is mostly black. If it is, this patch won't go through the voting phrase. This is done by calculating the mean and variance of each patch and thresholding them. 
## Discussion Summary & Challenges
* Instead of manually setting the threshold, we can get the variance and average intensity of all the patches and find the values that have the best thresholding result.
* The result of getting the top 2 labels of the 3 clusters in patches that are not near the edge of the mask is not good enough since some background pixels are also classified as cells. We can improve this by taking the intersection of the previously 1/2(the top label is the cell) method and the currently 2/3(the top 2 labels are cell) method.
* In terms of how to analyze the accuracy of our segmentation result, we need to improve our algorithm so that when the parameters change, the result won't change so much. One possibility of the metrics is the percentage of the cells in the dish.
* In terms of how to calculate the number of cells in the dish, we can use the approximation method. First, we find the cells that are not stick to others and record their sizes, from which we can get the approximate range of the size of the cells in the dish. Then, we divide the size of all the cells in the already segmented image by the approximate sizes of the cells, we can get the approximate number of cells in the image.
* In terms of automatically finding the circle-shaped edge of the dish, we need to find parameters that can significantly identify it. If the parameters are found, we can narrow down the circle gradually and record the parameters each time. If the parameters changed significantly in a certain range of the radius of the circles(probably when the circle is near the cells), we can get our result.

## Schedule
We plan to meet Prof. Long Chen in January, during which time we'll keep working on the challenges discussed above.
