# 14-11-2019 
Meeting Notes
* Project:E.coli bateria image segmentation
* Advisor:Prof. Long CHEN
* Member:DB623033 LIN GUANGZE & DB611408 LI QIANYUN

## Finished Items
* We wrote a circular shape of mask whose size can be defined by the user. After getting the mask we applied it to the original image and got the region of interest.
* Simple Preprocessing of the image: Convert the image to a grayscale image. Since the images have imbalanced light, we applied the minimal filter to the image followed by an average filter. Then subtract the grayscale image by the resulting image we got our image with balanced light. After that we increased the contrast of the image.
* We divided the image into multiple small blocks with the size of 100 x 100 and for each block, we segment the image into 2 or 3 clusters.(After applying the mask, the intensity of the pixels outside of the region of interest are set to 0 while the intensity of the background pixels within the region of interest are not 0. For 3 clusters, that's for blocks who overlap between the roi and regions outside of roi. For 2 clusters, that's for blocks within the roi )
* We used local binary pattern as a feature to do the segmentation also in this way, but the parameters still need to be tuned to get better performance.


## Discussion Summary & Challenges
* Based on our current result, we need to remove the artifact of the image since currently the edges of the cells are fuzzy. Probably some morph operations or other preprocessing methods can be used.
* The edges of the roi don't have very good segmentation result due to the edges of the dish. Methods should be implemented to remove the dish edges. 
* The central part of the images have too many cells and it's hard to segment them.
* Can reduce the size of images in different scale and do the segmentation respectively to get better result.
* Can overlap the blocks and vote the overlapping region to improve performance.
* Can consider the variance of the block to improve performance.
* Can even shift the image to do the segmentation.


## Schedule
Based on the Discussion Summary we'll work to improve the performance of the segmentation and we planned to meet the professor in 2 weeks. 
