# 16-03-2020 
Meeting Notes
* Project: E. coli bacteria image segmentation
* Advisor: Prof. Long CHEN
* Member: DB623033 LIN GUANGZE & DB611408 LI QIANYUN

## Finished Items
* New function: Automatic detection of the dish in the given test images. This function is optional for the user, who can freely switch between manually specifying the ROI or choose this automatic method. Since the shape of the dish is a circle, if we find the most inner circle of the dish (Since the algorithm detects many circles from the dish), get its center and radius, we can crop the image and get the image of cells within the dish. The function is achieved by the “imfindcircles” function in the MATLAB, and its method of finding circles is based on Hough Transformation.
* New function: Manually labeling the cells within a manually selected area in the image. This function is also optional. Sometimes the image contains special interference (usually within a small area), which is hard to be removed, this function supports the user to handle these areas flexibly to improve the accuracy of the segmentation. The manually labeled result will replace the original segmentation result of the selected region. This function also supports the user to mark the cells of different sizes.

## Discussion Summary & Challenges
* The existing counting method is not accurate enough, so it is necessary to optimize the current method or develop a new counting method.
* The result of the automatic segmentation of the dish seems good. As for the function of manually labeling, Prof. Chen said it is okay to override the original segmentation result.
* Studied an open-source project of “Manual cell counter”, we may refer to it and implement some related function in our project.

## Schedule
We plan to meet Prof. Long Chen two weeks later, during which time we will keep working on the challenges discussed above.
