# 19-04-2020
Meeting Notes
* Project:E.coli bateria image segmentation
* Advisor:Prof. Long CHEN
* Member: DB623033 LIN GUANGZE & DB611408 LI QIANYUN

## Finished Items
* Finished reading of the papers previously advised by professor
* Tried the thresholding method used in those papers to do segmentation. The images are first preprocessed(Top-hat filtering to correct illumination, de-noising, gaussian filtering, open operation and increase contrast) followed by the histogram thresholding, since the Otsu's method widely mentioned in those papers doesn't have very good thresholding result. After getting the histogram of the preprocessed image, it's obvious that there're 3 peaks, the thresholding value we select is the value between the second peak and the third peak.
* The result of the thresholding-based segmentation is pretty good with little defects. Some of the area in the image is lost due to non-uniform illumination even after top-hat filtering. Hence, we tried adaptive adjustment algorithm introduced in paper Adaptive Adjustment Algorithm for Non-Uniform Illumination Images Based on 2D Gamma Function by LIU Zhi-cheng, WANG Dian-wei, LIU Ying, and LIU Xue-jie. Still, some of the area in the image is lost.
* By reading paper, we also found a algorithm that help us locate outer edge of the Petri dish. The inner edge of the dish is still found by hough transformation.
* Used the H-maxima based watershed algorithm after thresholding. The result is not good enough since there're too many cells in the image. Thus this is used to find the size of majority cells to help with automatic counting.

## Discussion Summary & Challenges
* Professor said that the previous manual approach of correcting the segmentation result is not good and automatic enough. He suggested that we should find the regions that are hard to segment and process them automatically. He said maybe we can use hough transformation to find the cells or segment the image into several class.

## Schedule
* We plan to meet professor Chen at the end of this month and try to solve the problem mentioned.

