# 25-04-2020 
Meeting Notes
* Project: E. coli bacteria image segmentation
* Advisor: Prof. Long CHEN
* Member: DB623033 LIN GUANGZE & DB611408 LI QIANYUN

## Finished Items
* Tried to use some texture filters to handle some regions that are difficult to be segmented: First, we zoomed in the image and manually cropped these regions so that the texture may be easier to found. Then, we applied the entropy filter, standard deviation filter, and local range filter and tried to apply some morphological operations to the filtered result. And we also tried to use the LBP to segment these regions. Furthermore, we applied the K-mean algorithm to the segmented image. However, the results were not better than before.
## Discussion Summary & Challenges
* To further improve the segmentation result, Prof. Chen suggested us trying to find different features for different regions to do the segmentation.
* We have written some new functions but not added into the UI yet, and it will make the UI not so simple to use. We will try to make the UI cleaner and intuitive and consider removing some unnecessary controls from the UI.
* The texture feature might not be applicable to our images since the distribution of the cells seems so random, and it is hard to extract the texture feature from it. We will keep exploring more features and see if they can further improve our segmentation result.
* We plan to synchronize our works by using GitHub to increase efficiency.
## Schedule
We plan to meet Prof. Long Chen two weeks later, during which time we will keep working on the challenges discussed above.
