# 28-02-2020 
Meeting Notes
* Project: E. coli bacteria image segmentation
* Advisor: Prof. Long CHEN
* Member: DB623033 LIN GUANGZE & DB611408 LI QIANYUN

## Finished Items
* Implement a multifunctional GUI for this program: Users can load different images and choose the different areas (ROI or the whole image) for segmentation. The selected image is displayed on the left, and the segmented result will be displayed on the right. Also, the user can click the button to start running the program. After the segmented result is done, the approximate number of the cells is also displayed at the right-bottom. On the menu bar, the user can choose an option to save the corresponding image.
* Pack the program into an independent executable file of macOS: User need to install the MATLAB Runtime Environment in advance (by downloading it from the Internet or using the web installer). After the environment is set and the program installation is done, the user can click and run the program easily.

## Discussion Summary & Challenges
* It is better to generate an independent and compiled version of this program, and then the user can click the executable file to run the program, which is much simpler.
* Implement the auto-segmentation of the dish. Sometimes a user may load lots of images and specify the region of interests one by one. The auto-segmentation of the dish will help the user to simplify these operations greatly.
* Support more functions in the GUI. Currently, some parts of the GUI are left blank. We will consider adding more functions, such as tuning parameters and altering preprocessing methods. The look and feel of the GUI are also very important, and we will try to make it prettier to improve user experience.
* Prof. Chen has invited some biological researchers to test our program. The feedback from the users is crucial for us to understand their needs and to improve the program.
* Pack the program into an executable file of Windows and try to generate the executable file which doesn’t need the MATLAB Runtime Environment.

## Schedule
We plan to meet Prof. Long Chen two weeks later, during which time we will keep working on the challenges discussed above.
