# 29-11-2019 
Meeting Notes
* Project: E.coli bateria image segmentation
* Advisor: Prof.Long CHEN
* Member: DB623033 LIN GUANGZE & DB611408 LI QIANYUN

## Finished Items
* We Implemented a voting algorithm to denoise, and it also improves the segmentation result, although it needs more time to compute, we can specify this cost by setting parameters. An NxN patch is applied to every pixel of the image, which determines if each pixel in the patch is '1' or '0', the results are overlapped, and they will be accumulated into a ballot box. The more votes a pixel gets, the more likely the pixel in the part of a cell.
* Since the edges of the cells are fragmented, we applied the gaussian filter to the image and specified an appropriate variance, which rounds the edges of the cells effectively.

## Discussion Summary
* Currently we partition the image into different blocks to do the segmentation, there is a problem that some blocks may tend to be black(no cell) and some blocks tend to be white(full of cells). The algorithm we used still tries to segment the pixels in the block into two parts, which leads to undesired results. By computing the variance of the histogram of the two clusters respectively, we may identify these special blocks and combine them with the voting algorithm to get better segmentation performance.
* One method to remove the artifacts in the image is performing morphological operations, but still it will affect the normal cells, we may combine this method with others.
* We also talked about some methods that may be adopted, like LSTM, superpixels, or some texture extraction method, we can treat the combination of these features as a linear model.

## Challenges
* There are some artifacts very similar to the cells in the image, to remove them, we can zoom out and then zoom in the image, but some information of the cell will be lost, so we need to find out what to do next.

## Schedule
We will work on removing the artifacts in the image by trying different methods, and we plan to meet the professor in two weeks.
